# insight_DS
Data science project at Insight Data Science at 2020 January. This is consulting project with Right Strain to recommend similar topic news articles. It's a NLP project. First approach for this problem, I used bag of words as well as tf-idf to perform topic modeling. However, since all these articles are business news, almost every article contains companies name, organization and locations. The topics with topic modeling used LDA as well as NMF pops out companies and locations rather than different topics like investment, products or new policies.

Since many of the articles contain companies and locations, first step is to extract the import entities. Without the labels of entities, spaCy with pre-trained Name Entity Recognition models is applied to identity the entities (mainly companies, organizations and locations) within content of the articles.

To link users to similar stories, titles of news are embedding with sentence transformer. Based on cosine similarity of the titles, users can retrieve articles of the similar topics with a specific company. This article recommendation web-app is based on the semantic searching of titles. In the future, we can performing semantic searching over all contents of articles.

The pipeline is first cleaning the data, aggregating all news and reducing the duplicates terms, url, emails etcs. To retrieve the similar stories with specific company, I employ two parallel stage modeling system. One part is using Bert extractive summary to summarize articles to key sentences and then after that with NER from spaCy to extract the entities within these sentences. Another part is performing the semantic searching based on cosine similarity of titles with sentence transformer.

src contains all the source code include data clean, data preprocessing, exploratory data analysis, topic modeling, article summarizer with transformer and NER, sentence embedding etc.